so this is a primal and this is referred to as a
beef rib right now this beef rib has its cap on
we have our back ribs the back ribs are the
ribs that are closest to the spine itself
we know they're back ribs because of that
curve so as it reaches the the ribs they are
this particular part of the
bone becomes a lot more curved
in this case this the way this rib came
to me came chined which means that the
major part of the spinal vertebrae
has been removed with a band saw
above these bones would be what's called the plate
and in this plate region would be our braising
ribs but they are not there what I'm going to
do first is I'm going to remove this top set of
muscle and fat because this is this is referred
to as our rib cap and so by removing it i'm
going to create what's called the capless rib
this would traditionally be the very first step
with the manufacturing of a rib and it's simply
because even if I wanted to tie a fat cap back on
I would want to trim down some of this fat or some
of the muscle that would exist here this region
now is referred to as a capless rib and this is
for obvious reasons I have removed the caps from
it from here I can cut one of my very first steaks
which or a roast which is a capless rib steak
just like so
now I'm going to come to the other side
keeping my knife along these bones
this section of bones known as our back ribs or
beef back ribs and now this muscle here as I've
left the tail on is referred to as boneless rib
okay so when the tail is left on the main muscle
this is what's referred to as a boneless rib steak
if I remove the tail
then this muscle
changes its name once again
and it goes from a boneless
rib to a boneless rib eye